hello I'm Richard gizbert and you're
watching a special edition of the
listening post when trying to explain
conflicts historians and journalists
examined the ideologies that helped
create them but in the media coverage of
Israel and Palestine one ideology
deserves far more attention than it's
been getting Zionism was the brainchild
of Jewish intellectuals in 19th century
Europe
it was a response to the tidal wave of
anti-Semitism sweeping the continent at
that time their solution a Jewish state
but on land already inhabited by
Palestinians it was a reflection of
Europe's Colonial thinking however after
Decades of dispossession war and
apartheid critics of Zionism call it
indefensible if not racist in Western
media those critiques are seldom heard
instead we get the opposite a debate
about whether opposition to that
ideology anti-zionism is
anti-Semitic later on in this program we
will hear from a Jewish American
Community leader about her transition
from a True Believer in Zionism to a
committed opponent of it but first the
listening posts Daniel Turi on Zionism
the discourse that surrounds it and what
it tells us about the world's longest
running
occupation across the the Western World
from parliaments to TV studios opinion
makers have been pushing an alarming
message let's call it out for what it is
anti-zionism is
anti-Semitism they say that a political
critique of Israel anti-zionism is in
fact a form of
anti-Semitism but what almost never gets
is Zionism itself I me there is no
argument anymore that anti-zionism is
anti-Semitism that is as plain as Day
news audiences seem puzzled a poll last
year found that most Americans either
don't know what Zionism is or don't know
what to think of it Zionism is the idea
of Jewish nationalism and its ultimate
goal was a Jewish state in Palestine
this goal was achieved in 1948 with the
establishment of the state of Israel
Zionism is now the official ideology of
the state of Israel Zionism is Central
to understanding what's happening in
Palestine and Israel at this moment
Zionism is the motive force of the
confiscation of land in Palestine and it
is at the very core of the ethnic
cleansing and genocide we are witnessing
today
like most ideologies Zionism emerged as
a response to a problem in the late 19th
century anti-Semitism in Europe had
reached historic
levels thousands of Jews were killed in
a succession of pograms with many more
driven from their homes among the Jewish
intellectuals proposing Solutions was
Theodore Herzel a journalist in Austria
Hungary Herzel called for the creation
of a Jewish State out side of Europe
soon choosing Palestine as the promised
land he knew this would entail the
displacement of
Palestinians but as Herzel himself noted
Zionism was a colonial
idea the colonial mindset was absolutely
crucial to Zionist ideology all the
founding fathers of Zionism were
Europeans and Theodore Herzel thought of
the Jewish state in Palestine as an
extension of Europe he spoke about the
Jewish State as Manning the ramparts of
Western
Civilization against Eastern
barbarism at this point colonialism is
not a bad word the United States and
Europe are really subjugating
non-european um peoples throughout the
global South and it's at this moment
that Zionism is really born this is one
of the tragedies of Zionism and that
Zionism was really a response to racial
understandings of the hierarchies of
humanity at the same time that Zionism
sought an escape from those hierarchies
unfortunately it would recreate them in
Palestine the Jews saw themselves as
running away from a Europe that was not
working for them
and making in Palestine something that
could be of their own but this worked
out for the Palestinian peasantry as
being something like displacement the
Zionist then thought well yeah but you
have this immense Arab world so if you
have to move a few miles is that so bad
I mean this is the way they thought they
were operating in a world of complicated
Justice
before World War II most Jews did not
support the Zionist cause many opposed
it and in Palestine Jewish settlers were
a
minority some advocated peaceful
coexistence with the
Palestinians but most Zionist leaders
favored a more militant approach among
them Z of jabotinsky the father of a new
kind of Zionism on the right in 1925
jabotinsky wrote Zionism is is a
colonizing adventure and therefore it
stands or falls on the question of armed
forces Zionist militias were established
and soon played a decisive role in the
wake of the Nazi Holocaust Jewish
refugees arrived in Palestine and the
United Nations approved the creation of
Jewish and Arab
states latest pictures from war Tor
Palestine provide these impressions of
Hagar forces consolidating areas under
their control during the fighting that
followed militias carried out the nut
the catastrophe expelling roughly
750,000 Palestinians from their homes to
make way for Israel we Palestinians have
been talking about our condition as an
ongoing NECA as an ongoing catastrophe
my parents were both children in 1948
and both their families became refugees
um they lost everything and so that is
the Crux of the Palestinian condition
that Zionism is premised on the very
Erasure of Palestinian political rights
what it has meant on the ground since
1948 until this moment has been
dispossession separation condition of
Relentless Exile the guiding principle
of the state of Israel has been about
building as large as possible Jewish
state in Palestine with as few Arabs
inside its borders is possible in 1948
Israel perpetrated the nakba 3/4 of a
million Palestinians became
refugees in
1967 after The Six Day War Israel
traveled its territory and there was a
quarter of a million refugees from the
West Bank who were not allowed to return
so this is the logic of settler
colonialism ethnic cleansing in my
opinion Zion ism is a racist ideology
because it privileges one ethnic group
over the other I don't think of Zionism
as racism I think of Zionism as being a
movement which is very internally
focused it was trying to create
something novel and because in order to
create something novel it had to
self-segregate other people outside of
the rubric the precincts of Zionism may
have felt excluded and may interpret
that as
[Music]
racism Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu sees himself as the heir of
the right-wing Zionism championed by z
jabotinski a century ago netanyahu's
father was jabotinsky secretary but the
strands of Zionism that drive Netanyahu
and the religious hardliners in his
Coalition are even more
extreme his government has ramped up the
building of illegal settlements in the
occupied West
Bank the devastation of Gaza in response
to hamas's attacks on October the 7th
has put Israel on trial for genocide at
the world's highest court and they plan
to take it even further in the war
Israel's aim was to render Gaza
uninhabitable and the level of
Devastation is
unprecedented there is an Israeli
Ministries plan for depopulating the
whole of
Gaza there was a meeting in Jerusalem
for the resettlement of Gaza 12
ministers attended this meeting
[Applause]
and this is the climax of something that
was inherent in Zionism from the
beginning over in the US Israel's
biggest Ally support for Zionism spans
the political Spectrum starting in the
White House 35 years ago I said you
don't have to be a Jew to be a iist and
I'm a
Zionist there don't have to be a je to
be a Zionist but with opposition to
Zionism growing including among American
Jews pro-israel Lobby groups have set
out to delegitimize anti-zionism in
politics and the media but anti-zionism
I've long said is anti-Semitism I was
wrong anti-zionism
is
genocide in December the US House of
Representatives gave that narrative its
official seal of approval passing a
resolution that explicitly equates
anti-zionism with anti-Semitism it's a
conflation that continues to echo
through the halls of power and newsrooms
of Western capitals confusing audiences
and stifling dissent against Israel's
war so hatred of Jews had to find a new
vehicle and in the main that became
anti-zionism if what you mean by
anti-zionism is that Israel never should
have been invented in the first
place I think that's historically lazy
and I think it's a
mistake I think Israel should have been
created I think the Zionist movement
should have happened but do I think
you're being
anti-semitic I don't really see the
connection anti-Semitism is the hatred
of Jews because they are Jews
anti-zionism is not about Jews it's
about Israel and its policies and this
is a very dangerous Trend because the
criticisms of Israel's behavior in Gaza
are perfectly legitimate in relation to
Zionism the media is its first moral and
ethical and professional responsibility
is to not alide Zionism with Judaism the
elision of anti-Semitism with opposition
to Zionism is cynical and it is harmful
for the Palestinians in the Gaza Strip
who are experiencing the warp speed fast
death that the Israeli State armed by us
Arsenal is wreaking on
them that illusion has been the armor
through which Israel can continue to
conduct this Geno
side the conflation of anti-zionism with
anti-Semitism is provoking push back
from a growing number of young Jewish
Americans anti-zionist Jews have formed
a major part of the anti-war protests
that have taken place across the US and
they are not taking kindly to being
accused of racism towards their own
Community given the importance of us
support for Israel it is a movement that
could prove pivotal Simone Zimmerman is
one of the leaders of that movement the
co-founder of if not now an advocacy
group that aims to sway American Jews
against the occupation she also
campaigns against anti-Semitism and its
weaponization by the pro-israel lobby
but she wasn't always on that side of
the
argument Simone Zimmerman was raised a
committed Zionist her transition away
from that way of thinking forms the core
of an award-winning documentary called
israelism that was released last year I
wanted to know answers from within my
own community and nobody could answer
those questions for
me how is it that I am like the best the
Jewish Community has to offer I've been
through all the trainings all the
programs and I don't know what the
occupation is I I don't know what the
settlements are Simone Zimmerman joins
us now from New York City Simone thank
you for speaking with us here today at
the listening
in that documentary israelism a Core
theme was your personal turn away from
Zionism to start with talk about your
former self the pro-israel activist what
did you believe at the time and how did
you come to disbelieve it well I grew up
with a narrative about Israel that was
incredibly romantic and frankly
simplistic um I grew up with a idea of
my commitment to Israel as Inseparable
from my Judaism I grew up grew up
spending a lot of time in Israel and I
planned to go be an Israel Advocate on
my college campus we often said that
that was the other Battlefield you know
the college campus is the battlefield
for Israel's legitimacy and so I wanted
to go help tell the truth about Israel
uh now that that all got quite
complicated for me when I began actually
meeting students on my campus who had
different life experiences related to
Israel in different ways I began reading
texts by both Palestinian and Israeli
historian who complicated the story of
1948 I learned about the Nea the mass
displacement of Palestinians in 1948
that led to the founding of the state
and very quickly um that narrative was
was complicated and and shattered for me
and you're not the only one because
there's there's been a broader shift
amongst young Jewish Americans towards
opposition to or at least ambivalence
about sist
and we've heard those pro-israel
lobbyists say you know we've lost the
kids do you think they'll ever get those
kids back for many Jews Zionism has
meant a movement that led to the
safety that offered an Escape Route and
safety for our grandparents generation
that's true in my own family story now
it's also true that Zionism has always
meant Mass displacement and oppression
and Injustice for the Palestinian people
for young americ American Jews they're
asking these questions in the same prism
that they're asking other questions
about you know racial Injustice in
America that what young people are
seeing on our phones right now these
live stream Horrors 24 24 people were
killed
here 22 of them are women and children
the bombings the
starvation the utter Horrors being
committed against children and and we're
seeing it on our phone live streamed To
Us by young people who you know look
like us who have the same aspirations as
we do and we want the same rights and
Justice and freedom for these people and
and the the the basic ability to live
freely and safely that we have and I
think seeing
that alongside seeing these videos of
Israeli soldiers celebrating uh their
war crimes and laughing and desecrating
the homes that Palestinians have fled in
this moment in which they are
responsible for the largest displacement
of Palestinians since the nakba that is
prompting a really dramatic Reckoning
among not just a younger generation but
I think young people are experiencing in
a particular way because we see it in
such such unfiltered
means a lot of Israel's supporters in
the US uh we've seen it they've done it
in the media they've taken to labeling
anti-zionism as pure anti-Semitism what
do you make of that argument that
conflation is there a cross over there
how do you see
it look anti-Semitism can show up
anywhere along the political Spectrum
just like racism and sexism I think the
real question is you know what are the
animating values of a movement and a
misrepresentation that we keep seeing
consistently is the tarnishing of the
movement for Palestinian freedom see
something on Tik Tock and they're like
Israel bad and Hamas good and they go
out and they start shouting at Jews it's
a movement whose core motives and goals
are to stop this Mass killing in Gaza to
protect Palestinian life to demand
Justice and freedom for the Palestinian
people and we see time and again the the
misrepresentation of that movement with
these false charges of anti-Semitism in
ways that first of all
are such an unfair and Grave attack on
this movement and in addition they
create deep confusion about what
anti-Semitism is and it actually makes
it harder to identify anti-Semitism and
be able to root it out you also do
important work combating anti-Semitism
and anti-jewish hate has been on the
rise since October 7th is the media
discussion around that topic
anti-Semitism doing anything to help
people understand what it really is and
to fight
it yeah well I think that's why it's so
important to actually talk about this
conflation of Jews and Israel and to do
our best to separate the two you know
the so-called leading uh organization
that is often the the leading uh Source
cited in media around this is the
Anti-Defamation League but the ADL
actually has a a long history history of
being opposed to Justice movements most
significantly um the movement for
Palestinian freedom and in the latest
statistics that they've released and and
this is not a new phenomenon post
October 7th but they've certainly
escalated in this campaign they include
in their um list of anti-Semitic
incidents protests led by Jewish
organizations and Jewish individuals so
how can we get a true picture of the
state of anti-Semitism in this country
when the leading organization
responsible for telling us about it does
not have reliable data I think that's
deeply dangerous um for Jewish people
and I also think it's important to say
that you know we are seeing increased
numbers of Jews in the movement for a
ceasefire for Palestinian freedom and I
believe that those thousands of Jews who
are out in the streets not just in the
US but around the world are helping
fight anti anti-Semitism because we are
breaking that conflation between Jews
and Israel's devastating assault on the
Gaza Strip there's documented evidence
that whenever there is escalated
violence in Israel Palestine Jews around
the world who have nothing to do with
that violence often are on unfairly on
the receiving end of that blowback from
individuals who Target Jews out of their
rage at Israel last one for you as a
result of the activism the exposure you
got from that do dou umentary you've
become something of a leader within the
Jewish Community how hopeful are you
that this movement that you're part of
American Jews against Israel's
occupation that something meaningful can
be achieved in the coming years are we
at an inflection
point you know whenever I get asked this
question about hope it feels important
to say first of all that it's it's hard
to answer that question in a moment in
which Israel has reduced
the majority of the Gaza Strip to Rebel
in which we are living through the the
largest attack on Palestinian life and
displacement and destruction since the
NBA of 1948 I feel deeply afraid for
Palestinians right now and for also for
Israeli Jews who are deeply endangered
living this ongoing situation in
addition to that in this moment of such
profound darkness and tragedy it is
incredibly powerful to see so many young
people waking up asking questions young
and old people joining these movements
for justice and freedom for all people
if I just think about college campuses
you
know I got to participate in Shabbat and
Passover at the Gaza solidarity
encampment at Columbia
University and it was really moving to
me to see all of these young Jews there
in the encampment grappling with the
histories that they've been taught
having hard conversations with their
friends with their community members
that to me is hopeful these movements
for justice and for accountability are
hopeful because without that the the the
red lines that we are seeing moved
farther and farther away from any
semblance of democracy and respect for
human life um that is very scary and so
seeing students rising up and demanding
that is a path to an alternative Simone
Zimmerman thank you so much for taking
the time to talk to us
thank you the Turning tide of Young
Americans like Simone Zimmerman away
from support for Israel and Zionist
ideology could prove to be one of the
major developments in the history of
Israel's occupation of Palestine but it
is only the latest act in this Century
long story one that cannot be understood
without at least a basic understanding
of Zionism news outlets have a big part
to play in that we need to talk about
Zionism explain how it relates to
Israel's past its present and its
ongoing ethnic cleansing of Gaza its war
crimes against Palestinians we'll see
you next time here at the listening post